## On Lawrence–Venkatesh’s proof of the Mordell conjecture

  The purpose of this weekly seminar is to study Lawrence–Venkatesh’s proof of the Mordell conjecture. The main reference is [LV], and the survey [Po] gives a quick sketch for beginners. All talks will be given by participants, and each meeting will be about 90 minutes.
  - **Organizer:** [Xinyi Yuan](http://faculty.bicmr.pku.edu.cn/~yxy/).
  - **Time:** 10:30–12:00 Wednesdays (starting on March 1).
  - **Venue:** Jia-yi-bing Big Lecture Hall, Jingchun Yuan.


### Schedule (tentative)

#### Part A

The following is about the proof argument of Mordell's conjecture.

- [x] (3/1) **Xinyi Yuan:** Introduction and organization. I will review Faltings’ proof and sketch the main idea of [LV]’s proof. ([notes](././LV1.pdf))
- [x] (3/8) **Han Hu:** Review of the _p_-adic comparison theorems (étale / de Rham / crystalline). This is not in the paper, need an expert to do it. (my [addendum notes (I)](././LV2-1.pdf))
- [x] (3/15) **Han Hu:** Continued with the introduction to _p_-adic comparison theorems. (my [addendum notes (II)](././LV2-2.pdf))
- [x] (3/22) **Shiquan Li:** §3 of [LV]. Application of the comparison theorems to the Diophantine situation. ([slides](././LV4.pdf))
- [x] (3/29) **Xingzhu Fang:** §4 of [LV]. Prove the _S_-unit theorem. This is a baby case prior to the Mordell conjecture.
- [x] (4/5) **Haoda Li:** §5 of [LV]. Outline the proof of Mordell. Give a proof of [LV, Lemma 2.3] following [Wu, Proposition 2.7].
- [x] (4/12) **Wenhan Dai:** (_To replace Xiangqian Yang_) §6 of [LV]. This is to prove the technical Proposition 5.3 in §5.
- [ ] (4/19) **Binggang Qu:** §7 of [LV]. Introduce the Kodaira–Parshin construction. This is purely geometric.
- [ ] (4/26) **:** §8 of [LV]. Compute monodromy of the Kodaira–Parshin construction. This is done over complex field by topological methods. Sketch the proof. 
- [ ] (No talk on PKU spring holidays.)

#### Part B

Up to now, the proof of Mordell's conjecture is complete. The following is about families of hypersurfaces.

- [ ] (5/10) **:** §9 of [LV]. The Bakker–Tsimerman theorem on on the period map.
- [ ] (5/17) **:** §10 of [LV]. Proof of the main result on families of hypersurfaces.
- [ ] (5/24) **:** §11 of [LV]. Proof of Proposition 10.6, which is mainly combinatorics and linear algebra.



### References
1. [LV] Brian Lawrence, Akshay Venkatesh, Diophantine problems and _p_-adic period mappings. _Invent. Math._ **221** (2020), 893–999.
2. [Po] Bjorn Poonen, A _p_-adic approach to rational points on curves. Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. (N.S.) 58 (2021), no. 1, 45–56.
3. [Wu] G. Wüstholz, The finiteness theorems of Faltings. In: Rational points (Bonn, 1983/1984), Aspects Math., E6, pp.154–202. Friedr. Vieweg, Braunschweig (1984).