## Seminar Beyond Fargues-Scholze.

The purpose of this weekly seminar is to study some of the recent works that are built on Fargues-Scholze. We will focus on those works in the Langlands program. All talks will be given by participants, and each meeting will be about 110 minutes, with a ten minutes break in the middle.

- **Organizer:** Zhiyou Wu (MCM).
- **Time:** 13:00–15:00 Wednesdays (starting on March 1).
- **Venue:** Jingchun Yuan 78301.


### Syllabus

- [x] (3/1) **Zhiyou Wu:** Overview. 
- [x] (3/8) **Xiangqian Yang:** The condensed group homology computations [Zou, §3,4].
- [x] (3/15) **Xiangqian Yang:** Finish of the proof [Zou, §5, 6].
- [x] (3/29) **Daming Zhou:** Geometric class field theory [Far, §1-5].
- [x] (4/5) **Heng Du:** Proof [Far, §7].
- [x] (4/12) **Yichao Tian:** Averaging functors I [AB, §4, 5.1-5.4]. ([notes](0412.pdf))
- [x] (4/19) **Daxin Xu:** Averaging functors II [AB, §5.5-5.6, 6].
- [x] (4/26) **Zeyu Wang:** Fargues’ conjecture in the irreducible case [AB, §7]. ([notes](././0426.pdf))
- [ ] (The meeting is canceled during the PKU spring holiday.)
- [x] (5/17) **Liang Xiao:** Review of the Kottwitz conjecure and the classical approaches, [HKW, §1,2] and the reference in the introduction, notably the work of Strauch and Mieda.
- [x] (5/24) **Weizhe Zheng:** The Lefschetz-Verdier trace formula [HKW, §4]. ([notes](././0524.pdf))
- [x] (5/31) **Jiahao Niu:** Local terms on the BdR-affine Grassmannian [HKW, §5.1-5.3]. ([notes](././0531.pdf))
- (No meeting during the Hong Kong conference.)
- [x] (6/14) **Jilong Tong:** Applications I [HKW, §6.1-6.3]. ([notes](././0614.pdf))
- [x] (6/21) **Wenwei Li:** Transfer [HKW, §3]. ([notes](././0621.pdf))
- [ ] (_Canceled_) **Zhiyou Wu:** Applications II [HKW, §6.4-6.6].




### References
1. [AB] Johannes Anschütz and Arthur-César Le Bras Averaging functors in Fargues' program for GL(n).
2. [Far] Laurent Fargues, Simple connexite des fibres d'une application d'Abel-Jacobi et corps de classe local.
3. [HKW] David Hansen, Tasho Kaletha, and Jared Weinstein, On the Kottwitz conjecture for local shtuka spaces.
4. [SW] P. Scholze and J. Weintein, Moduli of _p_-divisible groups.
5. [Zou] Konrad Zou, The categorical form of Fargues' conjecture for tori.

